A job can fail for many reasons,
but they all boil down to one thing, non-zero exit codes.
If anything in a job exits with something other than a zero,
the job will be marked as a failure and the pipeline will stop.
What about when we want to run some code when a job fails?
One very valid scenario for this is when you want to perform
a rollback of system changes after something didn't deploy correctly.
Another time this could be useful is when you want to send
a special message to a chat tool after a failure in a certain job.
We can do this by using a when condition and specify on fail as the value.
Let's see how that works.
Here in the CircleCI documentation,
we've got the step section of a job just to
give us an example of how to use the when condition.
Here in our steps, we've got four different steps.
We've got four runs.
Each one has a different purpose.
The first one, by its name is going to be testing the application.
Then later on, we're going to do something with the host's file.
Later on, we're going to looks like create a database user.
Then we've got this fourth step.
We can see here at the very bottom of the step,
we can see when: on_fail.
That triggers this step only in the event of
another previous step returning a non-zero at the end.
The only reason any of these other things will return a non-zero is if there is an error.